The boring intro part

Some of you who know me in person know that I have a bit of a commute to make. A few months ago I subscribed to Audible and started listening to audio books while driving. Again, if you know me, you know that I'm not really interested in listening to any fiction. I like reading about what I (subjectively) consider to be useful to whatever I'm interested in at the time.

Most recently, I've been listening to Outliers: The Story of Success. First of all, let me just say that everyone should read this even if it's only for the stories that are told in the book. They're quite comical and really enjoyable to hear.

Anyways, in this book, the author takes his time to look at different ways people interact, and he touches upon what is considered by society to be successful. He frames this by exploring the cases of extreme cases, aka outliers as they're known in some communities.

Outliers as defined by Dictionary.com is: an observation that is well outside of the expected range of values in a study or experiment, and which is often discarded from the dataset.

In other words, outliers are considered a fluke. I think this is why Malcolm Gladwell (the author of Outliers) decided to focus on these severe cases. What made them so severe? I'll plug the book again since I really do enjoy it. He takes you through the lives of the successful, and some lives of the not so successful.

The reason I'm writing about this

Well, I have had a lot happen in the last week, but I decided that I wanted to talk about this the most because it seemed like the most interesting thing to do. Around mid-terms of the 2014 Fall semester, I had a brief stint of a heightened impostor's syndrome. I've considered myself a reasonably successful person so far, but for some reason during that time it didn't feel like anything I did was thanks to me. What I mean, is that it felt like all that I've accomplished was due to luck. Since then I've calmed down, but this book brought it back up in my mind.

The book specifically talks about how we like to associate success based on one's individual accomplishments. However, Gladwell claims that ithat's not always the case. Without spoiling the nitty gritty details, the stories that he tells involves some very smart people who end up getting lucky.

Expanding upon this, the difference that separates the lucky and the successful are that the successful capitalize on when lucky things happen. I used to think getting lucky meant that my skills/knowledge weren't' adequate enough to do it on your own. Now I know that sometimes an accident or something a bit unorthodox just needs to happen before something great can happen.

Evolution works because every so often there are mutations in the child of a reproducing couple.Sometimes these accidents end up helping in the survival of a species. In this same vein of thought, sometimes getting just a little lucky or a fluke happening means you're given the opportunity for something great.

Tangent thoughts, more from the book

On another note, it was really interesting to find out that the outliers that were brought up by Gladwell are really just average in most other categories of their life. I mean, it's obvious right? Not everyone can be perfectly outstanding at everything, but the thought that there's a genius who works on a farm while writing calculus/philosophy books in his spare time. Bill Gates makes more money in a few seconds than I do in a year but that he still puts his pants on one leg at a time. Kind of mind blowing that just a seemingly miniscule chain of events leads to such a massive difference in life.

Thanks for reading. I wrote this one on and off while doing other stuff so it might read a bit disconnected.